CURRENT GAME
change json to a more sensible format:
and to include all game data, not just player's
actually you should write it all out here before changing the real json
"states":{
"walking north":{"path to frames":"assets/images/player/",
                 "frames":{1:{"image":"player_back1.png",
                              "delay":10},
                           2:{"image":"player_back2.png",
                              "delay":10},
                           3:{"image":"player_back1.png",
                              "delay":10},
                           4:{"image":"player_back2.png",
                              "delay":10,
                              "transform":"flip"}}},}
make new json file and gradually adapt to using new json, then get rid of old json file
make sure this file format looks good and makes sense.
each frame has its own collision rect
    what do you do when a change in rect makes an overlap happen? a slow move outward from each
        of the rect's centers.
try to make the python code as general as possible, fit as much as you can into the json, try to make it very customizeable.

document all in wiki, keep updated
    what about code comments? (look up conventions)
game editor, mouse controlled w hotkeys? keep it updated with features of game
make more objects, stuff she can walk behind, and stuff that animates
make npcs with programmable actions/animations/paths
transparencies
    "transform":"tranluscent" (see through)
make more images and make more game content with editor
interact with people and objects
    switches and doors and stuff.
    text and drawing primitives for word balloons and other menus
    avatars in dialog boxes, timed printing out of dialog
re-read all ms paint adventures for inspiration
experience rewards: items that gain exp like in ratchet and clank?
adventure game inventory
armor, weapons, items, etc
find items in field, treasure chests, people
money and shopping
Battle engine: final fantasy? chrono trigger? earthbound?
attack, pyshcic powers
cut-scenes like chrono-trigger
in field, reading minds, pyschic influence, telekinesis to move and retrieve things
party follows you like in earthbound
subset of monsters are pokemon pets?
other subset of monsters are possible henchmen?
replay or research kotor for inspiration
replay or research diablo 2 for inspiration
research diablo 3 for inspiration
replay other rpgs you have for inspiration
research other video game and table-top rpgs for more inspiration
plot-story tree
    can I learn and add game ai?
finish game
make a good linux, windows, and mac installer.

SEQUEL I
make isometric platformer a little like chain of memories, but I want good sidescroller action too
dynamically generated content.
keep all features from old game
avatars can vary, like one of the players could be in a mech suit.
vehicles and mounts
vehicle, mount action in field
more skills, abilities, gear.
you see what you wear
    editor allows you to super-impose images
craft all items

SEQUEL II
still 2D
add as many game elements from as many retro games and modern games as you can think of. It should be designed in such a general way that your game can flow from one game genre to another or indeed to mix any amount of them together or create new ones as easily as possible.
